and what I want to get flavor into the
rice is the onion to be nice and sort of
toasted and caramelized now if you if
you want to do without the onion I would
still suggest you have a little bit of
oil because it does help to keep the
grains separate now cooking perfect rice
is very very easy provided you know what
the rules are so number one is it's best
I always think to use a wide prying pan
and it needs to have a lid now this
frying pan actually has its own lid but
if you haven't got a frying pan with a
lid if you dig about in your saucepan
cupboard you can probably find one that
will fit a frying pan but this shallow
pan is very important because it keeps
the grain separate rule number two is
always measure the rice by volume and
not by weight because the correct amount
of liquid is twice the volume so you
measure the rice in a measuring jug and
you need about two and a half ounces per
person I've got ten ounces here so it's
up to the 10 ounce measure and then you
use twice that of liquid so measure by
volume and always use twice the amount
of liquid to the rice this will be
enough for four people so I'm going to
put the rice in the pan what that little
bit of oil does is as you move it around
each grain gets just a very very faint
smidgen of oil and this helps to keep
the grains separate so just toss them
around until they've all got a nice
coating and then the next thing you do
is add the liquid I'm just using water
today but you can use stock so in it
goes and then I'm just going to give it
a stir and what I didn't tell you is you
don't ever wash rice you don't need to
it's all cleansed in the milling and
sometimes some of the nutrients that are
clinging onto the rice are best left
there so you don't need to wash it in
any
it'll be purified because it's going to
be boiled this will come up to simmering
point in a minute so you don't have to
worry about that then as soon as it
comes up to simmering point which that
is now you put a lid on and you give it
between 12 and 15 minutes to cook now
I'm going to give you the most important
rule of all and where most people go
wrong and that is you must leave it
alone what happens is you know you're
cooking rice you might be doing it for
the first time you might be a bit
nervous
so you take the lid off and then you go
in with your spoon and have a stir and
what that does is it disturbs the grains
the stirring breaks them and all the
starch that's inside the grains comes
out and the rice becomes sticky and
that's why you've probably had failures
in the past if you have had failures so
the most important rule is please please
leave it alone
put your timer on come back have a look
in 12 minutes just take a little grain
between your fingers and see if it's
cooked
and when the rice is cooked as I said
before you can just take a little grain
to see if it's ready another way to tell
if it's ready is to just move move the
rice in and just tip the pan and if
there's no liquid left you know that
it's all been absorbed and the rice is
ready the next thing you need to do is
switch the heat off and then what you do
is you put a tea cloth on the rice like
that and just leave it for five or ten
minutes to settle and what happens is
the steam will be absorbed in the cloth
and it'll be even more fluffy and
separate when you want to serve it
you